---
template: item
---

# How I tried to become a transcriptionist for Literably

Since the beginning of this year, I've decided to try and supplement my income with some remote work on the Internet. I wasn't sure what I would be doing and as the matter of fact I'm still figuring it out. But since then I've tried and learned quite a few things that I hope to share with you here in the form of these articles.

Looking for online jobs I've encountered a website where one of the advertised jobs was working as a transcriptionist for Literably. In case you didn't know, Literably is a service that helps children get over the hurdle of learning how to read. The way it helps them by having these kids recorded while reading a text. This text then needs to be transcribed using a text format, which is known as Full Verbatim, i.e literal transcription of anything that is uttered during the recording, including mispronounced words, random utterances like "uh", "oi", repetitions and so forth.

After signing up for the account you are given 6 training recordings which you need to transcribe according to their style guide. Basically, there is a recording of a child reading a text which is usually under a minute and there is a text that is being read displayed on the web-page under the recording. My job was to edit the text by using keyboard shortcuts. The goal was to listen to a child reading and then add whatever was being uttered using phonemes and words, or remove missing information. I could add, substitute, remove single words or mark the chunk of text as missing.

There is a scoring system. Literably compares your transcription to one they already did themselves. It's a little bit subjective since utterances can be transcribed in multiple ways. There is a standard phonetic system but you can use these phonemes differently from how Literably uses them, depending on how you hear and perceive the spoken text. To cut it short, Literably has two types of scores: for words and phonemes. First, they are looking for maximum accuracy in terms of missing or extraneous words, secondly, they want you to use phonemes as close as possible to the way they use them.

This is the case where a style guide needs to be studied thoroughly, and few times. I'm a type of learner that needs to make a few mistakes to really get it. Literably's user interface is not the most intuitive; there is a small learning curve involved and you need to get a feel on how things are done. For example, the text presented on the page is longer than the recording, so you need to mark the remaining text as missing. This is not something that was obvious to me in the first few recordings. Such gross mistakes contributed to the decline of my overall score. Once I got the initial mistakes under control, my overall score drastically improved. I have a music background and I believe I'm somewhat more sensitive to sound than an average person. Once I got used to the phonetic system, it was relatively easy for me to distinguish phonemes and transcribe them into text. Alas, Literably makes their hiring decision based on the first six recordings, although they allow you to transcribe as many sample recordings as you want. They declined my application and as far as I know, there are no retries or second chances.

For anyone who wants to try to get hired on Literably, I advise you to read the style guide several times and carefully study it by making notes. Then start your first transcription, get a feel for how things work and practice with the few recordings before submitting them.